Create an extensive doc on config customizations in this chart (#328)
grafana/k8s-monitoring-helm: charts/k8s-monitoring/docs/Customizations.md

# Customizing the Configuration

While this chart provides a capable configuration for Kubernetes Cluster infrastructure monitoring, you can use this document to customize your configuration and understand how these customizations affect it.

## Overview

Each telemetry data source (e.g. metrics, logs, events, traces) typically goes through the same process:

1. Discovery - How does the collector find the data source?
2. Scraping - How should the data get gathered?
3. Processing - What work needs to be done to the data?
4. Delivery - Where should the data be sent for storage?

## Metrics

> Metrics are typically gathered using Prometheus-style scraping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics are usually gathered using Prometheus-style scraping.
```

### Discovery customizations

> These fields affect how metric targets are discovered. Typically, you'll make changes to these values if the Grafana Agent is not detecting the target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These fields affect how metric targets are discovered. If the Grafana Agent is not detecting the target, make changes to these values.
```

Reviewer: In this section, do we need to give some examples of what issues users are trying to solve, such as reducing metrics? For eample, why would I use relabeling for one source as opposed to all?

* `metrics.<source>.extraRelabelingRules` - These rules are used to populate the rules section of a
  [discovery.relabel](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/discovery.relabel/) component. They filter from all Nodes, services, endpoints, or Pods on the
Cluster to a specific one that has the metrics. 
  Use these rules to target a specific service.
* `metrics.extraRelabelingRules` - Same as above, but these rules are applied to all metric sources.
* `metrics.<source>.labelMatchers` - Defines what Kubernetes labels need to match on the target.
* `metrics.<source>.service.port` - Defines the name of the port that has the metrics endpoint. 

### Scraping customizations

These fields affect how metric targets are scraped. Typically, you'll make changes here if 
you want to change something about how often to scrape or which target to scrape.

* `metrics.<source>.scrapeInterval` - How often to scrape metrics from a target.
* `metrics.scrapeInterval` - Same as above, but changes the global default.
* `metrics.<source>.service.isTLS` - Determines whether the Agent use HTTPS and TLS to scrape the target instead of HTTP.

### Processing customizations

> By default, we already use an "allow list" to filter to a specific set of metrics, meaning the list drops metrics that are not useful for monitoring Kubernetes Clusters. The following fields allow for more customizations of the metrics after they have been scraped, but before being sent to the external metric service for storage. Typical changes that you might want to do here include setting, modifying, or dropping metric labels.

Reviewer: Again, wondering if we need to say why a user would want to do this.

* `metrics.<source>.extraMetricsRelabelingRules` - Rules that modify metrics and will populate the rules
  section of a [prometheus.relabel](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/prometheus.relabel/)
  component. Use these rules to perform arbitrary modifications to metrics or metric labels.
* `metrics.extraMetricsRelabelingRules` - Same as above, but the rules are applied to metrics from all metric sources.
* `metrics.<source>.allowList` - Sets a list of metrics that will be kept, dropping any metrics that don't match.
* `extraServices.prometheus.externalLabels` - A key-value set that defines labels and values to be set for all metrics
  being sent. It sets the `external_labels` section of
  [prometheus.remote_write](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/prometheus.remote_write/#arguments)
  component.

### Delivery customizations

These fields adjust how metrics are delivered to the metrics service. Typically, change these only to

> tune the performance of metrics uploads.

Reviewer: What's the problem I'm solving?

* `extraServices.prometheus.processors` - These processors control the batch and memory size of metrics to bundle
  before sending them to the service. Only applies to metrics services using the OTLP or OTLPHTTP protocols.
* `extraServices.prometheus.wal` - Controls the behavior of the Write Ahead Log that's used in the remote_write
  component.

## Logs

> ### Discovery customizations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customize which logs to gather
```

Reviewer: Probably need an intro sentence here - why would I want to customize log discovery?

When you customize the discovery of logs, it will affect which Pods to gather logs from. The default is all Pods in all namespaces,
but you can easily adjust this setting.

* `logs.pod_logs.namespaces` - Only gathers logs from Pods in the given list of namespaces.
* `logs.pod_logs.extraRelabelingRules` - Rules that filter from all Pods on the Cluster to the specific set
  that will be used for gathering logs. They're used to populate the rules section of a
  [discovery.relabel](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/discovery.relabel/) component.

> ### Gathering customizations

Reviewer: Let's talk to make this section more understandable

This field controls how Pod logs are gathered from the Cluster.

* `logs.pod_logs.gatherMethod` - The default method, "volumes", means that the Grafana Agent for logs will gather logs
  by mounting hostPath volumes to the Pod log location on each Kubernetes Cluster Node. The other method, "api", means
  that the Agent will gather logs by streaming them from the Kubernetes API Server.

> ### Processing customizations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customize how logs are processed
```

* `logs.pod_logs.extraStageBlocks` - Processing logs is done in stages. This field allows for additional stages to
  be set. Stages set here will be used to populate a
  [loki.process](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/loki.process/) component.

## Events

> 

Reviewer: Let's talk about this section as well.

# Customizing the Configuration

> By default, this chart provides a very capable configuration for Kubernetes Cluster infrastructure monitoring. However

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, this chart provides a very capable configuration for Kubernetes Cluster infrastructure monitoring. However,
```

there will be circumstances where you might want to customize the configuration. This document will describe the various
ways to provide those customizations and what affect they will have.

## Overview

Each telemetry data source (e.g. metrics, logs, events, traces) typically goes through the same process:

1. Discovery - How does the collector find the data source?
2. Scraping - How should the data get gathered?
3. Processing - What work needs to be done to the data?
4. Delivery - Where should the data be sent for storage?

## Metrics

Metrics are typically gathered using Prometheus-style scraping.

### Discovery customizations

> These fields in the Helm chart's values affect how metric targets are discovered. Typically, you'll make changes here if
> the Grafana Agent is not detecting the target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These fields affect how metric targets are discovered. Typically, you'll make changes to these values if the Grafana Agent is not detecting the target.
```

* `metrics.<source>.extraRelabelingRules` - These rules are used to filter from all nodes, services, endpoints, or pods on the

>   cluster to a specific one that has the metrics. They're used to populate the rules section of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Cluster to a specific one that has the metrics. They're used to populate the rules section of a
```

which drops metrics that are not useful for monitoring Kubernetes clusters. Other typical changes that you might want to
do here include setting, modifying, or dropping metric labels.

* `metrics.<source>.extraMetricsRelabelingRules` - These rules are used to modify metrics and will populate the rules
  section of a [prometheus.relabel](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/prometheus.relabel/)
  component. Use these rules to do arbitrary modifications to metrics or metric labels.
* `metrics.extraMetricsRelabelingRules` - Same as above, but the rules are applied to metrics from all metric sources.
* `metrics.<source>.allowList` - Sets a list of metrics that will be kept, dropping any metrics that don't match.
* `extraServices.prometheus.externalLabels` - A key-value set that defines labels and values to be set for all metrics
  being sent. It sets the `external_labels` section of
  [prometheus.remote_write](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/prometheus.remote_write/#arguments)
  component.

### Delivery customizations

> These fields adjust how metrics are actually delivered to the metrics service. Tyipcally, these will be changed only to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These fields adjust how metrics are actually delivered to the metrics service. Typically, these will be changed only to
```

tune the performance of metrics uploads.

> * `extraServices.prometheus.processors` - These processors will control the batch and memory size of metrics to bundle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `extraServices.prometheus.processors` - These processors control the batch and memory size of metrics to bundle
```

  before sending them to the service. Only applies to metrics services using the OTLP or OTLPHTTP protocols.
* `extraServices.prometheus.wal` - This controls the behavior of the Write Ahead Log that's used in the remote_write
  component.

## Logs

### Discovery customizations

Customizing the discovery of logs will affect which Pods to gather logs from. The default is all pods in all namespaces,

> but this can easily be adjusted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but you can easily adjust this setting.
```

> * `logs.pod_logs.namespaces` - Only gather logs from pods in the given list of namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `logs.pod_logs.namespaces` - Only gather logs from Pods in the given list of namespaces.
```

> * `logs.pod_logs.extraRelabelingRules` - These rules are used to filter from all pods on the cluster to the specific set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `logs.pod_logs.extraRelabelingRules` - These rules are used to filter from all Pods on the Cluster to the specific set
```

  that will be used for gathering logs. They're used to populate the rules section of a
  [discovery.relabel](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/discovery.relabel/) component.

### Gathering customizations

> Customizing this field controls how pod logs are actually gathered from the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This field controls how Pod logs are gathered from the Cluster.
```

> * `logs.pod_logs.gatherMethod` - The default method, "volumes", means that the Grafana Agent for Logs will gather logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `logs.pod_logs.gatherMethod` - The default method, "volumes", means that the Grafana Agent for logs will gather logs
```
